.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii reventlog.1
.\"
.TH REVENTLOG 1 "Jan 2008" xCAT "xCAT"
.SH NAME
reventlog \- retrieve or clear remote hardware event logs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B reventlog
[\fInoderange\fR] [\fInumber of entries\fR|\fIall\fR|\fIclear\fR]

.B reventlog
[\fI-h\fR|\fI--help\fR|\fI-v\fR|\fI--version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B reventlog
can display any number of remote hardware event log entries
or clear them for a range of nodes.  See
.BR noderange (3).
Hardware event logs are stored on each servers service processor.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fIn\fR
Retrieve \fIn\fR number of entries.

.IP \fBall\fR
Retrieve all entries.

.IP \fBclear\fR
Clear event logs.

.IP \fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR
Print help.

.IP \fB-v\fR|\fB--version\fR
Print version.


.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be issued on stdout/stderr:

is not a node or a group
.RS
Node or group is not defined in
.BR nodelist.tab (5).
.RE 

function not supported
.RS
Node does not support remote event log retrieval or remote event log retrieval method not supported.
.RE

ping to $SPN failed
.RS
Where $SPN = the Service Processor Network defined in
.BR mp.tab (5).
PCI MPA adapter may not have power.  Check Ethernet cable and IP.
.RE

telnet timeout
.RS
PCI MPA adapter may not have power.  Check Ethernet cable and IP.
.RE

connection refused
.RS
Returned if telnet fails.  PCI MPA may be in use or telnet interface is locked up.  
.BR mpareset (1)
can be used to reboot the PCI MPA. 
.RE

unknown asma $host
.RS
Returned if not in /etc/hosts or DNS.
.RE

name lookup failure
.RS
Returned if not in DNS.
.RE

node not on asma $SPN
.RS
Where $SPN = the SPN defined for that node in in
.BR mp.tab (5).  
Use 
.BR mpncheck (1)
$SPN to verify.  Check cabling and try 
.BR
mpareset (1).
.RE

remote session timeout
.RS
Communication with SPN was successful but communication with node failed.  Check cabling.  Try removing power from node, wait 10 seconds, then restore.

.SH EXAMPLES

\fIreventlog node4,node5 5\fR

node4: SERVPROC I 09/06/00 15:23:33 Remote Login Successful User ID = USERID[00]
.br
node4: SERVPROC I 09/06/00 15:23:32 System spn1 started a RS485 connection with us[00]
.br
node4: SERVPROC I 09/06/00 15:22:35 RS485 connection to system spn1 has ended[00]
.br
node4: SERVPROC I 09/06/00 15:22:32 Remote Login Successful User ID = USERID[00]
.br
node4: SERVPROC I 09/06/00 15:22:31 System spn1 started a RS485 connection with us[00]
.br
node5: SERVPROC I 09/06/00 15:22:32 Remote Login Successful User ID = USERID[00]
.br
node5: SERVPROC I 09/06/00 15:22:31 System spn1 started a RS485 connection with us[00]
.br
node5: SERVPROC I 09/06/00 15:21:34 RS485 connection to system spn1 has ended[00]
.br
node5: SERVPROC I 09/06/00 15:21:30 Remote Login Successful User ID = USERID[00]
.br
node5: SERVPROC I 09/06/00 15:21:29 System spn1 started a RS485 connection with us[00]
.br

\fIreventlog node4,node5 clear\fR

node4: clear
.br
node5: clear
.SH "FILES"
.IX Header "FILES"
/opt/xcat/bin/reventlog
.SH "NOTES"
.IX Header "NOTES"
This command is part of the xCAT software product.

